# cryptox :: OpenSSL C++ Wrapper

A simple header-only C++ OpenSSL Wrapper for C++03 and up.

## Quick Examples

In order to simplify examples we assume these two lines at the top of all
snippets:

``` c++
#include <cryptox/all.hxx>
using namespace cryptox;
```

### Message Digests

#### C++11

``` c++
auto hash = digest<md5>("Hello world!");
auto as_string = to_hex(hash);
```

#### C++03

``` c++
md5::digest_type hash = digest<md5>("Hello world!");
std::string as_string = to_hex(hash);
```

Pretty much the same, except for the `auto` keyword.

#### Digest arrays

``` c++
char buffer[] = { 0x00, 0x10, 0x20, 0x30 };
auto hash = digest<sha1>(buffer, sizeof(buffer));
```

#### Digest containers

``` c++
std::vector<char> v = ...
auto hash = digest<sha512>(v);
```

### Symmetric Encryption

Please check the test code. There is no documentation for this yet.

## The API

### Quick Note

Please note that there is no proper API documentation at the moment. It's on the
list, but not done yet. Take a look at the test code to understand the API.
Every important user API function has at least one test case.

### Message Digests

[Message Digests](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function) are
implemented using cryptox::message_digester\<Algorithm\>, which is a class
template that takes the desired hashing algorithm as a parameter. However, there
are two high-level functions that ease most use cases.

A Message Digest is defined as a function that reduces a given input to a fixed
width binary value, called the Digest, or more commonly, the Hash.

### Digest Algorithms

The algorithms wrapped are from the OpenSSL EVP API. At the moment, these are
the available options:

| **Algorithm** | **Digest Length** |
|:-------------:|:-----------------:|
| mdc2          |        128        |
| md2           |        128        |
| md4           |        128        |
| md5           |        128        |
| sha           |        160        |
| sha1          |        160        |
| dss           |        160        |
| dss1          |        160        |
| ecdsa         |        160        |
| sha224        |        224        |
| sha256        |        256        |
| sha384        |        384        |
| sha512        |        512        |
| ripemd160     |        160        |
| whirlpool     |        512        |

Some of these algorithms may be unavailable due to OpenSSL compile-time options.
Cryptox will check the installed configuration macros and disable any
unavailable algorithms.

### Symmetric Encryption

In the works on a private branch.

## History

During almost two decades of professional software development I've created
wrappers and code utilities that have been copied and pasted on my projects over
and over. I'm putting them (rather slowly) into public repositories to help me
organize my code and also to see if it helps other developers. As an added
bonus, people can contribute and make the library better.

For now, only Message Digest code has been uploaded.

## License

The chosen license is one of the most permissive ones in the C++ world: the
Boost Software License. Feel free to use the library, but do your best to
contribute to make it better for other people to use as it well.

### Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
